[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: But there is hope
in the principle of least authority.
Which teaches that any unit of software
should be given just the capability
as it needs to do its work and no more.
>> Douglas Crockford: Capabilities
can be seen in the Actor model,
which was discovered at MIT in 1973.
The investigation of the Actor model
led to the invention of Scheme,
which led to higher order functions and
all that good stuff.
It also lead to Actors.
So in the Actor model,
an actor is a computational entity.
It's like asynchronous object systems.
An actor can send a message to another
actor only if it knows its address.
An actor can create a new actor and
an actor can create messages.
Web workers are kind of like actors
web services aren't but should.
There is a system called Waterken that was
developed at HP Labs, which applies
the after model to web services.
I think the stuff is brilliant,
it gives you very reliable systems.
I highly recommend getting into that.
>> Douglas Crockford: And so one of
the things that comes out of the the Actor
model is the idea of capabilities.
So an address to an actor is a capability
or reference to an object is a capability.
So let's apply capabilities to
object-oriented programming,
looking at object capabilities.
So here is an object.
A is an object, it has state and behavior.
Object A has a reference to object B
because objects can have references.
Object A can communicate with Object B
because it has that reference.
Object B provides an interface that
constrains access to its own state in
references.
So object A does not get access to
B's internals, only to its interface.
This is why I like freezing in JavaScript.
Because in JavaScript,
that is the only way to guarantee this.
The only way to make
good reliable objects.
Object A does not have a reference to C,
so A cannot communicate with C.
It's as though there is
a firewall between A and
C expect that firewall is
implemented at zero cost.
>> Douglas Crockford: An object capability
system is produced by constraining
the ways that references are obtained.
A reference cannot be obtained simply
by knowing the name of a public
of a global variable or a public class.
And in fact, there are exactly three
ways to obtain a reference by creation,
by construction, and by introduction.
By creation means that if
a function creates an object
it gets a reference to that object.
By construction means that an object
may be endowed by its constructor
with references.
This can include references in
the constructors context and
inherited references.
And then 3, this is the interesting
one by introduction.
So here A has references to B and C.
B and C have no references,
so they cannot communicate.
But A wants them to be
able to communicate.
So A communicates with B.
Passing a reference to C,
and once that is done,
B has now acquired the capability
to communicate with C.
That's why this is called
the capability model.
If references can only
be obtained by creation,
construction, or introduction,
then you may have a safe system.
And if they can be obtained
in any other way, you don't.
So potential weaknesses to watch out for
include arrogation,
corruption, confusion, and collusion.
Arrogation means to take or
claim for oneself without right.
This include global variables,
public static variables,
standard libraries that grant powerful
capabilities, address generation.
Which is why C++ can never be as secure
a language and known URLs in web systems.
Corruption, It should not be
possible to tamper with or
circumvent the system or other objects.
Again, that's why the freezing is so
critically important.
Number 3 confusion,
it should be possible to create objects
that are not subject to confusion.
Because a confused object can be tricked,
and then misusing its capabilities.
And then, finally collusion.
It must not be possible for two objects
to communicate until they are introduced.
If two independent objects conclude,
they might be able to pool their
capabilites to cause harm.
Some capabilities are too
dangerous to give to guest code.
So we can instead give those capabilities
to intermediate objects that will
constrain their power.
For example, an intermediate object for
a file system might limit access to
a particular device or directory or so on.
Ultimately, every object should be
given exactly the capabilities it
needs to do its work and no more.
So capability should be
granted on a need-to-do basis
just as we grant information
on a need-to-know basis.
The principles of information hiding,
which we know leads to good designs and
software systems, are enhanced when
you're thinking about capability hiding.
Intermediate objects or
facets can be very lightweight.
And class-free languages can
be especially effective.
I've tried making facets in Java and it
turns out, it's really hard because every
time you wanna make a little connector,
you have to make another class.
And that's a lot of work.
Whereas in JavaScript, most of these
things are just a simple object or
generator and, boom, you're done.
So here the Facet object limits the Guest
object's access to a powerful object.
The Guest object cannot tamper
with the Facet to get a direct
reference to the dangerous object.
References are not revocable
in a capability system,
once you introduce an object,
you can't ask it to forget it.
You can ask but you can not depend
on the request being honored.
So here the Guest object has
a reference to an Agency object.
The Guest asks for
an introduction to the powerful object,
>> Douglas Crockford: But
the Agency instead makes a Facet and
gives the Facet to the Guest and
the Facet might be a simple pass through.
The Guest can then call the Facet,
the pass.
It will then call the powerful object.
When the Agency wants to
revoke the capability,
it tells the Facet to
forget its capability.
The Facet is now useless to the guest.
This is what you did yesterday.
Yesterday's revocable
function was this pattern, so
these things are really easy to implement.
A Facet can mark requests so
that the Powerful object can
know where they came from.
That gives us accountability.
Facets are very expressive, they're
easy to construct, they're lightweight.
They provide attenuation or
power reduction.
They give us revocation,
notification, delegation.
And it turns out the best object-oriented
patterns are also capabilities patterns.
Sometimes when you're trying
to design a system and
you're trying to figure out does
this capability go there or there?
And sorting those early on in, when you're
doing that design a taxonomy is hard.
But if you think about it in terms
of capabilities, what is the least
amount of power I need to give to this
guy in order to have it work correctly?
You tend to end up with
the correct designs.
That thinking about security make
system designing easier not harder.
So Facets can reduce the power
of dangerous objects.
Most code should not be given directly
access to dangerous things, for
example the browser innerHTML or
document.write.
Instead of trying to guess if a piece
of code can do something bad,
we can give it a safe set
of capabilities instead.
You know that even if it is bad,
it's limited in what it can do.
And capabilities can aid in API design.